# Development

This project uses [Nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs) to keep tool versions consistent. Therefore, you'll need to Nix installed before you start.

## Prerequisites

You'll need:

- **Nix** with flakes enabled
- **direnv** (optional, but recommended)

### Install Nix

Follow the official guide: https://nixos.org/download/

**Enabling flakes**

Persistent option:

```sh
# ~/.config/nix/nix.conf
experimental-features = nix-command flakes
```

One-time option (does **not** work with `direnv` since it requires flakes to be enabled globally):

```
nix --extra-experimental-features "nix-command flakes" develop
```

## Development Environment

### Using `direnv` (recommended)

If you also have [`direnv`](https://direnv.net/docs/installation.html) installed, the Nix development environment loads automatically when you enter the project directory.

After entering the project directory for the first time, run:

```sh
direnv allow
```

### Without `direnv`

Load the environment manually with:

```sh
nix develop
```

## Development Workflow

### Setup

Install required tooling and hooks:

```sh
pnpm i
prek install
```

> [!NOTE]
> `pnpm` is used to manage some development tooling (e.g. OpenAPI generator, Prettier, Helm Readme generator)

> [!NOTE]
> `prek` is a fast Rust-based alternative to the python based pre-commit

### Local testing

A `compose.yaml` file is available in the project root for running and testing the services locally. Start the local stack with:

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

The RabbitMQ management UI is available at: http://localhost:15672

> [!NOTE]
> If you run into issues with the RabbitMQ or Postgres containers, try running `docker compose down -v` to remove existing volumes

### Common Commands

A `justfile` is included with frequently used commands. Run `just` to list all available recipes.

### Codestyle

Please follow the official Rust style guidelines. For the frontend, use the Prettier formatting rules.

These are also enforced by the pre-commit hooks.

## Helm Chart Development

### Requirements

> [!NOTE]
> These dependencies are not included in the Nix flake to keep it more portable

If you want to develop the helm chart, you should probably have a local cluster running with e.g [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) and [cloud-provider-for-KIND](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-kind) (handles e.g ingress). Besides that, you also should have `kubectl` installed.

The following helm chart values work well with the [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) + [cloud-provider-for-KIND](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-kind) setup.

```yaml
# kind.yaml
apiService:
  ingress:
    enabled: true
    className: cloud-provider-kind
    hosts:
      - host: guggr.internal
        paths:
          - path: /api
            pathType: Prefix

frontend:
  ingress:
    enabled: true
    className: cloud-provider-kind
    hosts:
      - host: guggr.internal
        paths:
          - path: /
            pathType: Prefix
```

You need to run [cloud-provider-for-KIND](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-kind) in the background or in another terminal window with elevated permissions so guggr can be reachable locally.

After you started [cloud-provider-for-KIND](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-kind), you can deploy guggr by running:

```sh
helm install guggr -f kind.yaml charts/guggr
```

In order for you to be able to reach guggr, you need to add the IP that is assigned to the ingress to your `/etc/hosts`. This IP can be retrieved by running:

```sh
kubectl get ingress
# example output:
NAME                CLASS                 HOSTS            ADDRESS                            PORTS   AGE
guggr-api-service   cloud-provider-kind   guggr.internal   172.22.0.3,fc00:f853:ccd:e793::3   80      4d15h
guggr-frontend      cloud-provider-kind   guggr.internal   172.22.0.3,fc00:f853:ccd:e793::3   80      4d15h
```

Then you would need to add the following row (at the top) to the `/etc/hosts` file:

```
172.22.0.3 guggr.internal
```

Now you should be able to reach guggr via http://guggr.internal

### Development notes

You need to run the following command to build the charts' dependencies (required once):

```sh
helm dependency build charts/guggr
```

The `README.md` inside `charts/guggr` is partly autogenerated. All Subsections under `## Parameters` are generated from the `values.yaml` with:

```sh
# (also run via our pre-commit hooks)
pnpm readme-generator -v charts/guggr/values.yaml -r charts/guggr/README.md
```

So do **not** change content in the `## Parameters` section. If you need to change something in that sections, go to the equivalent sections inside the `values.yaml`.
